mission statement (#7950)
numba/numba: docs/source/developer/mission.rst

* Compiler extenders wanting to write and explore new compiler use
  cases/needing a custom compiler.
* Hardware vendors wanting to extend Numba support to their custom silicon.

Project Goals:
--------------

The primary aims of the Numba project are:

* To make it easier for Python developers to write high performance code.
* To have a core package with a well defined and limited feature scope that
  meets the needs of the users without being overly complex.
* To provide a compiler toolkit for scientific Python that is extensible and
  can be customized to meet the needs of the user base. This with the
  expectation that users potentially need to invest time and effort to extend
  and/or customize the software themselves.
* To support both the Python core language/standard libraries and NumPy.
* To consistently produce high quality software:
* Feature stability across versions.
* Well established and tested public APIs.
* Clearly documented deprecation cycles.
* Internally stable code base.
* Externally tested release candidates.
* Regular releases with a predictable and published release cycle.
* Maintain suitable infrastructure for both testing and releasing. With as much

>   in public as feasible.

Reviewer: @esc I think this was indented another level in as it all related to software production?

Author: oh yes, I had some issues rendering lists, will fix

Numba Mission Statement
=======================

Introduction
------------

This document is the mission statement for the Numba project. It exists to
provide a clear description of the purposes and goals of the project. This
document begins by providing some background on use-cases for Numba and
categories of users. With this context established it continues with a

> description of the overall goals of the Numba project and its future direction.

Author: I decided to trim this as suggested but I also came to the conclusion that the purpose of the mission statement can not be omitted.

> description of the overall goals of the Numba project and its future direction.

Author: The final wording is now:

```
The mission statement describes the goals and purposes of the Numba project. It
exists to provide a clear description of the purposes and goals of the project.
As such, this document provides background on Numba use-cases and types of
users, and outlines Numba's overall goals and its future direction.
```

This is a living document:

=========================== ============
The first revision date is: March 2022
The last updated date is:   March 2022
The next review date is:    TBC
=========================== ============

Background
----------

The Numba project provides tools to improve the performance of scientific
software. It comprises numerous facilities including just-in-time (JIT)
compilation, extension points for scientific library writers, and a compiler
toolkit on which new computational acceleration technologies can be explored

> and built.

Author: I have significantly reduced the use of as part of af7fb2e16cc5681f9fba91cc1a8777992fcd3558

The user base of Numba includes anyone needing to perform intensive

> computational work, including scientists and practitioners from a wide range of

Reviewer 2: When I see "scientific" repeated throughout this document and use base as "including scientists" as the first example, that implies to me the project has a research first focus. I would like to reduce some of the usage of the word "scientific" to make this appear perhaps more balanced between scientists and practitioners.

For example, I don't think the scientific is essential in the examples and I think "scientific library writers" could be more generically "library writers".

> computational work, including scientists and practitioners from a wide range of

Author: This has already been fixed by 4399d93bf48f8175438462ffac2a6b4a7f19baa7

disciplines, examples include:

* The most common use case, a user wanting to JIT compile some

>   numerical functions.

Author: as per https://github.com/numba/numba/pull/7950#issuecomment-1121013274 we will stick to the term `users`.

* Users providing JIT accelerated libraries for domain specific use
  e.g. scientific researchers.
* Users providing JIT accelerated libraries for use in scientific computing as
  part of the numerical Python ecosystem.

> * Those writing more advanced JIT accelerated libraries containing their own

Reviewer 2: I personally think having 3 different examples of `JIT accelerated libraries` seems a bit redundant and the reason to separate them isn't clear to me. Perhaps these could be simplified with just:

`Users providing JIT accelerated libraries for computationally intensive codes either in research or the greater Python ecosystem`

Author: As per `The list of example use cases should remain as-is` from https://github.com/numba/numba/pull/7950#issuecomment-1121013274 these examples will remain in place.

>   domain specific data types etc.

Author: These examples will remain as they are per feedback from https://github.com/numba/numba/pull/7950#issuecomment-1121013274

> * Compiler extenders wanting to write and explore new compiler use
>   cases/needing a custom compiler.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Compiler developers exploring and implementing new compiler use
  cases who may need a custom compiler.
```

Author: I opted for the following amalgamation of ideas:

```
* Compiler engineers who explore new compiler use-cases and/or need a custom
  compiler.
```

> * Hardware vendors wanting to extend Numba support to their custom silicon.

Author: I opted for:

```
* Hardware vendors looking to extend Numba to provide Python support for their
  custom silicon or new hardware.
```

Project Goals
-------------

The primary aims of the Numba project are:

* To make it easier for Python developers to write high performance code.
* To have a core package with a well defined and limited feature scope that

>   meets the needs of the users without being overly complex.

Reviewer 4: sounds a little strange, maybe `... meets the needs of the user base ...` or `... meets the needs of its users ...`

Author: Thank you for the suggestions, I opted for `... meets the needs of the user base ...`.

* To provide a compiler toolkit for scientific Python that is extensible and
  can be customized to meet the needs of the user base. This with the

>   expectation that users potentially need to invest time and effort to extend

Reviewer 4: should this be `This comes with the expectation ...`?

> * To provide a compiler toolkit for scientific Python that is extensible and
>   can be customized to meet the needs of the user base. This with the
>   expectation that users potentially need to invest time and effort to extend
>   and/or customize the software themselves.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To provide a compiler toolkit for Python that is extensible and
  can be customized to meet the needs of the user base. This comes with the
  expectation that users potentially need to invest time and effort to extend
  and/or customize the software themselves.
```

Author: Will simply remove `scientific` as suggsted.

* To support both the Python core language/standard libraries and NumPy.
* To consistently produce high quality software:

  * Feature stability across versions.
  * Well established and tested public APIs.
  * Clearly documented deprecation cycles.
  * Internally stable code base.
  * Externally tested release candidates.
  * Regular releases with a predictable and published release cycle.
  * Maintain suitable infrastructure for both testing and releasing. With as much
    in public as feasible.

* To make it as easy as possible for people to contribute.
* To have a maintained public roadmap which will also include areas under
  active development.
* To have a governance document in place and it working in practice.
* To ensure that Numba receives timely updates for its core dependencies:

>   LLVM, NumPy and Python.

Reviewer 3: This item is a major focus for the team, so I'd move it up in this list to make it clear.

Author: I don't see the list as ordered, i.e. these are not in any order of priority or importance so this can stay where it is.

Numba Mission Statement
=======================

Introduction
------------

The mission statement describes the goals and purposes of the Numba project and
it exists to provide a clear description of these purposes and goals.  As

> such, this document provides background on Numba's users and use-cases, and
> also outlines the project's overall goals and its future direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
such, this document provides background on Numba's users and use-cases, and
outlines the project's overall goals.
```
the future direction is not mentioned in this document? I think this is what a "roadmap" would describe?

Author: Agreed
